---
layout: post
title:  "Freedom"
date:   2017-04-20 01:48:08 +0100
categories: psychological
---

## Versus Propaganda

> "I had a dream in which everyone was born free"<br> 
Gali. _Expansion of Conscience, 2017_

This sentence got me thinking that, in 2017, this poet believes we as a society are not free. I've always boasted
    about being free, and doing whatever I want. As a white, upper-middle class, kind-of-christian male, I reap all the
    privileges I can in an Eastern European country. Namely:

- Eat high quality meals
- Live in a safe city
- A big and comfortable home
- Friends and "family"
- Alcohol and its friends
- Casual sex

 There, all instinctive needs checked. Nevertheless, freedom is not about needs. It's about desire. Doing as you
    desire, and in that sense, I am limited by money, and therefore not free. Therefore a slave of production means. Of
    capitalism. Capital. Well, I could think about what I really want, and adapt it to seek achievable goals. The other
    way is getting more money. I am not happy with these. One limits me, the other intrinsically limits those around me.
    I am not happy.

I invite the reader for a scientific investigation. Assuming that which we desire originates in corrupted reflexions
    of social media (may be a false pretense) is there a correlation between the use of such tools and sense of
    accomplishment? More than that, is there a less empirical, but theoretical way to find such relationships? I want to
    propose an answer to the theoretical part. With 3 assumptions:


`A1` Social media relies on advertisements.<br>
`A2` Companies use advertising to attract people and potentially convert a sale.<br>
`A3` People rely on social media for a social life.<br>

`H1` From _A1_ and _A2_, we conclude that people that use social media are highly exposed to ads, and have a high probability of becoming consumers.<br>
`H2` From _A3_ and _H1_, anyone that seeks a social life is fated to consumerism.<br>

Once we are all consumers all the time, we as such need that which can't be bought, making freedom impossible. The
lack of capital is a mere condition, a symptom of a disease that lies deeper within. Deep inside user experience and
behavioural psychology, social anxiety, and propaganda. I do not have the resources to deliver the empirical
experiment, but I strongly believe the logic above. The conclusion:

__Freedom and exposure to propaganda are mutual exclusive__.

You cannot have both.

Back to the poet, he had a dream in which _people weren't over exposed to advertisement_.