---
layout: post
title:  "The Cancer Sprint"
date:   2024-09-01 12:00:00 +0100
categories: personal
permalink: /cancer
---

**Preface:** I'm in no mood to write this, but need to get this written down so my memory 
doesn't betray me. I'be been sexually active, for the lack of a better expression, for 
15 years, and have sparingly used protection. By anecdotal evidence I should have had a hoard
of children, but I didn't. Curious as to why that is, I visited a doctor, and found out I have
testicle cancer. This is an account of the events, maybe it helps someone.

### The Halflings Test

[Mid July] My intuition told me the first step to debug my lack of apparent fertility was to do a
sperm test. So I scheduled an appointment to a local private clinic (Invimed) and went there. I was
insanely embarrassed about the procedure (doing *it* on a cup), but turns out it was pretty impersonal.
They lock you up in a room, and when you're done you just put the cup inside a plastic bag and leave
as fast as you can while looking nobody in the eye.

Couple days later the test came back, and 98% of my swimmers were broken. They had all sorts of
defects that the test could describe. Wrong heads, wrong bodies, wrong tails, you name it. I was
very upset about this, so decided to consult with a specialist.

### First Andrologist Visit

[Late July] Contrary to what I thought, urologists are experts of the urinary tract, for both male and female patients. The expert in male private parts is called an *Andrologist*. My private healthcare
provider had no such specialists, so I found a private one (Ginemedica). First thing the doctor said
was that I should've brought my wife.

He looked at the test, told me to lower my pants and lay down, then pulled out an ultrasound 
machine and got to scanning. Besides some very small vein issues, he found printed some scans
of a black dot (a 4mm-wide ellipsis). He didn't exactly mention what it was, but told me to do some blood tests and get
back to him.

### First Urologist Visit + First Markers Test + Second USG

[Early August] The blood markers were AFP (α-fetoprotein, a protein), LDH (lactate-dehydrogenase, an enzyme), and b-hCG (β human Chorionic Gonadotropin, a hormone).

My private healthcare provider (Luxmed) did have this test available, so I went to an urologist to
request them. The urologist looked very concerned by the USG images, so he urged me to also get a
second ultrasound. I did the tests, and all the markers came back normal.

I quickly arranged the USG with the provider, and the lady who did the ultrasound
looked very concerned. Not only did she find more of these spots, which I'll start calling tumors,
but she said the previous one had grown to 5mm. She and told me the only option I had was to remove
the testicle.

### Second Urologist Visit + Second Andrologist Visit (Third USG)

[Mid August] At this point I decided to do 2 things: get back to the Andrologist, and get a second opinion. 
I scheduled both. Back at the Andrologist, he confirmed the multiple tumors from the second USG, as well as
the increase. He explained to us how the surgery would go, and I will try to summarize what he said here:

> This is one of the cancers with the best survival rate. Over 95% of men with this cancer survive.
> It occurs in young men from 20-35 years old. Removing the testicle is safe both from a fertility and from a
> hormonal point. It doesn't affect sperm count or testosterone levels. Lastly, the best specialists
> are on the public healthcare system, and the best way to get it done as early as possible is to
> start calling each and every hospital, not only in the city, but wherever we can find an 
> appointment.

The second urologist I visited to get a second opinion had a very different view. He inspected
the area with his hand, and looked at the 3 USG images I had. He questioned that the black marks
could be anything, not necessarily a tumor, and that if there was something there, it was too small
to be a tumor. He mentioned the best course of action would be to visit a hospital and have a
surgeon's opinion.

### Calling Hospitals

[Mid Aug] Since I don't speak the language well, my wife volunteered to help call hospitals. Most of them
didn't pick up. The first one that picked up (Lower Silesia Oncology Center) only had slots for the
end of October. Two other hospitals picked up: (Borowska?) who told us to come by at 12PM, and
(Military?) who told us to come by 3PM. We did some research, and went to the military one.

### First Hospital Visit + 4th USG

[Mid Aug] At the military hospital, 3PM, we had to wait about an hour because the doctor was busy.
When we got a hold of him, he asked us to come the next day for his colleague to examine me. The next day, we found his colleague who had no idea we'd come (the previous doctor forgot to let him know), 
nevertheless he nicely agreed to examine me. He pulled out the USG machine, and couldn't 
find anything wrong with me. He called for help from a more senior doctor, who found the spots, but they still weren't convinced what they were. He explained:

> tumors in this area grow very quickly. They should've doubled in size since the first USG, but
> are still at ~5mm. This doesn't look like cancer. We wouldn't want to remove a healthy part of
> your body. We don't just remove the tumor from the testicle because if you'd have to pull 
> the testicle out via the thy, and there's no guarantee that it'll go back to working normally
> when we stich it back up.

He suggested I get an MRI to confirm the diagnosis, and to repeat the markers test in two weeks,
to make sure the markers were still normal.

### First MRI + Second Markers Test

[Late Aug] To get the MRI, we tried going to the diagnosis section of the hospital, which wouldn't do it because
they didn't have the necessary "tube" (not sure how to translate this) to scan the testicles.
The doctor recommended we either go to the Borowska hospital (which *should* have it), or better yet,
find a private clinic to get it done. He told us to do it *with* contrast.

To get the MRI I called an urologist from my private healthcare provider to get the referral for it, and a creatine test to allow the clinic to inject me with the contrast. 

The urologist from the provider gave me a referral for the wrong type of MRI 
(pelvis instead of testicles) so in the end I didn't get refunded for this costly exam. The creatine
test however was free, and came back normal.

We called and went to several places, but no clinics in the city would do this MRI. We ended up
finding a clinic in a city 2 hours away (Orion Clinic in Jelenia Gora). A week later, we drove
to the clinic and got the MRI. 

The MRI took about 90 minutes, and I just laid still on a metal bed inside a tube, with a metal
plate on my lap. Not naked as I had expected. The contrast they injected on my right arm made
me feel feverish the whole day, and I had a massive headache that night. At the end of the exam,
they handed me a CD (no way for me to use it) and told a doctor would get back to us in 2-4
weeks time.

I redid the blood markers test, and again, everything was normal.

### MRI Results + Third Urologist Visit

[Mid September] The MRI results weren't as conclusive as I expected. It just describes
the anatomy of the anomalies, a few on the left testis (T2 and T1, about 5mm), a small one in the prostate (T2). No visible inflammation. The specialist said they don't look like typical lesion signs; his best guess would be post-injury. I haven't had any injuries though.  

I took these results to the doctor, who recommended I go to an oncology hospital with these.
Scheduled it for the end of October.


### First Oncology Hospital Visit + 5th USG

[Late October] The oncology hospital (Lower Silesia Oncology Center) was a very different experience. We had to wait about 2 hours to get to the doctor, who was extremely professional
(like a mini Dr. House). He looked at the MRI results, did an ultrasound himself, and asked me
to get a second MRI at their hospital (along with markers again), he suspected it would be more conclusive. He described
that basically I would have three options: (1) check for increases in the anomaly size every
N months, (2) get a biopsy that takes 15 minutes, and if they find something they remove it 
right away, (3) or simply remove the affected part. The biopsy was the worst option according to him, because even if they remove a few of the nodes, the others may still grow and become problematic.

### Second MRI + Third Markers Test

[Early November] The second MRI was done in a container outside a different hospital, but was way more professional
than the first one. The contrast didn't bother me at all, and the whole thing took about 45 minutes.

### Second Oncology Hospital Visit

[Late November] Went back to the good doctor. He looked at the MRI results, and said that
there were no changes in the anomalies, and that the markers were still normal. The radiographer
who interpreted the imaging said there were no signs of cancer anywhere, including the 
lymph nodes. Doctor prescribed one USG every 4 months for a year, and that's it.

### Conclusion

Can't believe I spend 5 months worried over this, but in the process I learned so much
about the public health system of the country I live in, and I'm just grateful it's all
over now.
