---
layout: post
title:  "Every Man Is An Island"
date:   2021-03-21 23:00:00 +0100
categories: psychology sociology
---

It's discouraging to be a man in 2021. COVID aside. A few of my friends transitioned to the other gender. Many men did. I wish I had the courage to ask how they feel.

To _feel_. There's a word I don't use often, not in the sense of manifesting an internal emotion. So I'm gonna use this post to openly address it.

I can't process feelings in real time. Sometimes it takes me days to figure out what I felt. Sometimes years. My heart's like a weather app that shows the weather from last week. Uncharted. But there's this one thing I feel constantly. A signal. A virus. A pressure on my chest. A weigh on my shoulders. Unsettling. Spreading. All the time. 

Sometimes it makes me clench my hands on the street. Sometimes I feel like I could punch through a ribcage. Most days I wish someone would punch through mine. It's what makes me run the extra mile. Do the extra push up. It makes me get out of bed to feed my family. It keeps me awake at night. It makes me laugh at violence on the TV. It kept me from crying when I really wanted to.

I try to hide it most of the time, but some days it just takes control. Then I have to spend the day in solitude, until it wears off. Last Friday it got me shaking, simply because I saw some narcissist on the internet gaslighting someone else.

Maybe that's what fasting was for. I assume you can't feel much on an empty stomach. I always think of Jesus as a man in possession of an optimal policy (i.e., a perfect decision-making strategy that optimizes accross all long-term goals). I wish He had some instructions on how to deal with these feelings.
