---
layout: post
title: "Iron Wolf"
date: 2026-01-01 09:00:00 +0100
modified_date: 2026-01-24
author: Lucas Farris
categories: miscellaneous
permalink: /iron-wolf
---


This is information that may be gone some day, certainly not known by many. Between 2020 and 2023 we had the pandemic, and where I lived there was a lockdown for everyone. We could only go to stores at given hours, and only go so many meters outside our address. Public gatherings were off, and that also meant gyms.

During that time, I started training calisthenics at home, doing workouts from a certain "Art Iron Wolf" from youtube. His videos are all gone now, so I've put in some work to create a "iron wolf workout roulette" widget. The source data for it is [here in YAML](/assets/data/workouts.yaml). I've sourced this material from [this police officer's video](https://youtu.be/EhCivWp_FFc), thank you so much, sir. I've transcribed the workouts myself, so please excuse any imperfections.

<div style="border: 1px solid #ccc !important;border-radius: 16px;padding:8px;">
	<div id="iron-wolf-widget" class="iron-wolf">
		<button id="iron-wolf-pick">Pick another workout</button>
		<div id="iron-wolf-output">Loading workouts…</div>
	</div>

	<script src="https://cdn.jsdelivr.net/npm/js-yaml@4.1.0/dist/js-yaml.min.js"></script>
	<script src="/assets/js/iron-wolf.js"></script>
</div>

### General Instructions

- Warm up before starting any workout. Here's an example warm up I learned from Iron Wolf:
  - 10 chain breakers
  - 10 cherry pickers
  - 10 cherry pickers (toe touches)
  - 10 ground touches
  - 10 knee-to-elbows
  - 10 arm circles forward/backward
  - 20 jumping jacks
- Count the reps, or as Iron Wolf would say, "sound off like you got a pair!"
- When tired, don't rest. Run in place. There is no resting in these.
- There are 2 ways to progress with these exercises:
  - Time your workout for a certain routine, and try to improve it.
  - Wear a weighed vest (start very light, ex: 1kg). Increase the weight over time.
  - For exercises with unbounded repetitions, see how many reps you can get under an hour.
- One thing that is lost in this is the form for each exercise. You will need to do your own research on this. 